An array is an ordered collection of data, typically stored in a single variable and accessed by a numeric index. In programming, this structure allows you to store multiple values (like numbers, strings, or other objects) and access them efficiently. The term also has a more general meaning of an impressive group or arrangement of things, people, or concepts, notes Cambridge Dictionary and Merriam-Webster. 
In computer programming
Collection of data: An array holds a list of values, also known as elements, under a single variable name.
Ordered: The elements are stored in a specific sequence and are ordered by their index.
Zero-indexed: The first element of an array is at index 0, the second at index 1, and so on.
Dynamic size: Many programming languages allow arrays to grow or shrink as elements are added or removed.
Access: You access individual elements using their index, for example, cars[0] would retrieve the first item in a cars array. 
In a general context
Arrangement: An array can refer to a large group of items arranged in a particular order. For example, a table might have an "array of food" or a group of people might be "arrayed" in rows.
Variety: It can also mean a large or impressive assortment of things, such as "a whole array of problems". 
Example
Imagine you want to store the names of three cars. Instead of using three separate variables:
let car1 = "Saab";
let car2 = "Volvo";
let car3 = "BMW"; 
You can use an array to store them all under a single name:
const cars = ["Saab", "Volvo", "BMW"]; 
Then, you can access each car by its index: 
cars[0] returns "Saab".
cars[1] returns "Volvo".
cars[2] returns "BMW". 
JavaScript Arrays - W3Schools
JS Reference. JavaScript Arrays. ❮ Previous Next ❯ Example. const cars = ["Saab", "Volvo", "BMW"]; Try it Yourself » An Array is a...

W3Schools
Array - Glossary - MDN Web Docs
An array is an ordered collection of data (either primitive or object depending upon the language). Arrays are used to store multi...

MDN Web Docs
ARRAY | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary
Meaning of array in English. ... a large group of things or people, especially one that is attractive or causes admiration or has ...

Cambridge Dictionary
Show all

new changes check by me
